== Quick start ==

If you're just getting started with LuaRocks, these are things you probably want to read first:

* [[Download.wiki|Download]]
* To install, choose the one appropriate for your platform:
** [[Installation_instructions_for_Unix.wiki|Installation instructions for Unix]]
** [[Installation_instructions_for_Windows.wiki|Installation instructions for Windows]]
* [[Using_LuaRocks.wiki|Using LuaRocks]]



The sections below provide more comprehensive information for creating your own rocks.

== Tutorials ==

* [[Creating_a_rock.wiki|Creating a rock]] - for Lua developers who want to make their code available through LuaRocks.
* [[Recommended_practices_for_Makefiles.wiki|Recommended practices for Makefiles]] - things Lua module authors can do to their Makefiles to improve portability and ease of packaging.
* [[Creating_a_Makefile_that_plays_nice_with_LuaRocks.wiki|Creating a Makefile that plays nice with LuaRocks]] - like the above, but in tutorial form.
* [[Creating_LuaRocks_with_GNU_autotools.wiki|Creating LuaRocks with GNU autotools]] - some pointers to automating the creation of LuaRocks for your GNU autotools-based projects

== Concepts ==

These pages explain some concepts about LuaRocks:

* [[Types_of_rocks.wiki|Types of rocks]] - What are rocks: source rocks, binary rocks...
* [[Rocks_repositories.wiki|Rocks repositories]] - rocks servers and rocks trees are rocks repositories.
* [[Dependencies.wiki|Dependencies]] - How LuaRocks understands dependencies.
** [[Platform-agnostic_external_dependencies.wiki|Platform-agnostic external dependencies]] - How to specify dependencies on non-Lua libraries in a portable manner.
** [[Paths_and_external_dependencies.wiki|Paths and external dependencies]] - Configuring path for Lua and other C modules needed by rocks.
* [[Using_LuaRocks.wiki|Using LuaRocks]] - How to use LuaRocks once it is installed and configured.

== Command-line tools ==

* [[luarocks.wiki|luarocks]] - The LuaRocks command-line interface.
* [[luarocks-admin.wiki|luarocks-admin]] - The repository management tool.

== Reference material ==

* [[File_formats.wiki|File formats]] - Reference on the various files used by LuaRocks.
* [[File_locations.wiki|File locations]] - The various locations of files installed and used by LuaRocks.
** [[Rockspec_format.wiki|Rockspec format]] - Rockspecs are the files which contain rules explaining how rocks are built and installed as well as their dependencies and other metadata.
*** [[Platform_overrides.wiki|Platform overrides]] - How to add platform-specific parts in rockspecs.
** [[Config_file_format.wiki|Config file format]] - The specification of the LuaRocks configuration file format, as it takes shape.
** [[Manifest_file_format.wiki|Manifest file format]] - The index file that describes a LuaRocks [[Rocks_repositories.wiki|servers and trees]].
* [[LuaRocks_through_a_proxy.wiki|LuaRocks through a proxy]] - Configuring HTTP/FTP proxies for use with LuaRocks.
* [[Development.wiki|Development]] - Documentation related to the development of LuaRocks itself.

== Presentations ==

* [http://luarocks.luaforge.net/luarocks_fisl.odp LuaRocks: o sistema de pacotes de extensão para a linguagem Lua], presented by Hisham Muhammad at [http://fisl.softwarelivre.org/9.0/ FISL 9.0] - IX International Forum on Free Software, Porto Alegre, Brazil ([http://luarocks.luaforge.net/luarocks_fisl.odp ODP], in Portuguese)

== Feedback ==

Missing something in the documentation?

Leave your requests for further docs in the [[Documentation_feedback.wiki|Documentation feedback]] page.
