This page is the index of documentation resources for LuaRocks. If you don't find the answers to your questions here, contact us via the [[mailing list]]!

== Quick start ==

If you're just getting started with LuaRocks, these are things you probably want to read first:

* [[Download]]
* To install, choose the one appropriate for your platform:
** [[Installation instructions for Unix]]
** [[Installation instructions for Windows]]
* [[Using LuaRocks]]



The sections below provide more comprehensive information for creating your own rocks.

== Tutorials ==

* [[Creating a rock]] - for Lua developers who want to make their code available through LuaRocks.
* [[Recommended practices for Makefiles]] - things Lua module authors can do to their Makefiles to improve portability and ease of packaging.
* [[Creating a Makefile that plays nice with LuaRocks]] - like the above, but in tutorial form.
* [[Creating LuaRocks with GNU autotools]] - some pointers to automating the creation of LuaRocks for your GNU autotools-based projects

== Concepts ==

These pages explain some concepts about LuaRocks:

* [[Types of rocks]] - What are rocks: source rocks, binary rocks...
* [[Rocks repositories]] - rocks servers and rocks trees are rocks repositories.
* [[Dependencies]] - How LuaRocks understands dependencies.
** [[Platform-agnostic external dependencies]] - How to specify dependencies on non-Lua libraries in a portable manner.
** [[Paths and external dependencies]] - Configuring path for Lua and other C modules needed by rocks.
* [[Using LuaRocks]] - How to use LuaRocks once it is installed and configured.

== Command-line tools ==

* [[luarocks]] - The LuaRocks command-line interface.
* [[luarocks-admin]] - The repository management tool.

== Reference material ==

* [[File formats]] - Reference on the various files used by LuaRocks.
** [[Rockspec format]] - Rockspecs are the files which contain rules explaining how rocks are built and installed as well as their dependencies and other metadata.
*** [[Platform overrides]] - How to add platform-specific parts in rockspecs.
** [[Config file format]] - The specification of the LuaRocks configuration file format, as it takes shape.
** [[Manifest file format]] - The index file that describes a LuaRocks [[Rocks repositories|servers and trees]].
* [[File locations]] - The various locations of files installed and used by LuaRocks.
* [[LuaRocks through a proxy]] - Configuring HTTP/FTP proxies for use with LuaRocks.
* [[Development]] - Documentation related to the development of LuaRocks itself.

== Support / more resources ==

* On LuaRocks:
** [[Mailing list|LuaRocks mailing list]] - for all things LuaRocks!
* On Lua:
** [http://www.lua.org/lua-l.html Lua mailing list] - for questions about the Lua language itself or specific Lua modules (most module authors hang out there!)
** [http://www.lua.org/docs.html Lua documentation] - documentation on the Lua language, including the reference manual
* On LuaJIT:
** [http://luajit.org/list.html LuaJIT mailing list] - for LuaJIT-specific discussion

== Presentations ==

* [http://hisham.hm/talks#fosdem2015 LuaRocks: fostering an ecosystem for Lua modules], presented by Hisham Muhammad at FOSDEM 2015, Brussels, Belgium
* [http://hisham.hm/talks#luawshop14 What's new in LuaRocks], presented by Hisham Muhammad at the Lua Workshop 2014, Moscow, Russia
* [http://hisham.hm/talks#luawshop13 LuaRocks - past, present and future], presented by Hisham Muhammad at the Lua Workshop 2013, Toulouse, France
* [http://hisham.hm/talks#luawshop09 LuaRocks 2.0], presented by Hisham Muhammad at the Lua Workshop 2009, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
* [http://hisham.hm/talks#fisl9 LuaRocks: o sistema de pacotes de extensão para a linguagem Lua], presented by Hisham Muhammad at FISL 9.0 - IX International Forum on Free Software, Porto Alegre, Brazil
