LuaRocks as a package manager has quite some dependencies on other applications/libraries/tools on the system. Here is a list of locations/whats necessary;

== path to LuaRocks ==

* LuaRocks commandline scripts. These are the main LuaRocks commands (<tt>luarocks</tt>, <tt>luarocks-admin</tt>) and this path should probably be in your system path.
* LuaRocks modules. These are Lua modules (<tt>luarocks.fs</tt>, etc.) used by LuaRocks (and potentially by other scripts). If you want these modules available, then this path should be added to the <tt>LUA_PATH</tt> environment variable

== path to Lua binaries and associated data ==

* Lua interpreter. Where to find the Lua interpreter to execute scripts and LuaRocks itself.
* Lua libraries to link against. When compiling C modules, the library is necessary to link against.
* Lua header files (.h). Also required when compiling C modules.

For Windows users the libraries and headers maybe awkward, as Windows tends to have binary distributions. LuaRocks can provide BinaryRocks, but many rocks are available only as source code and need to be compiled during the installation process.

== path to rocks trees ==

most installations will feature two rocks trees;

* System [[Rocks_repositories.wiki|rock tree]] (used by default)
* User [[Rocks_repositories.wiki|rock tree]]

The [[Rocks_repositories.wiki|deployment directories]] contained within the rock trees should probably be added to the <tt>LUA_PATH</tt> and <tt>LUA_CPATH</tt> environment variables, so the Lua interpreter can find the modules installed.

== path to install commandline scripts ==

When rocks contain commandline scripts, similar to LuaRocks own <tt>luarocks</tt> and <tt>luarocks-admin</tt> commands, then they need to be installed in a location where they can be executed. You probably want to add this location to your system path.

== compiler ==

Because more rocks are available as source code than as binary rocks, it is probably best to have a C compiler available. MinGW and Microsoft compilers are supported a.o. The compiler should be in the system path, or explicitly configured in the LuaRocks config files.
